Heart-Disease-Prediction

The work proposed in this project focus mainly on various data mining practices that are employed in heart disease prediction. Human heart is the principal part of the human body. Basically, it regulates blood flow throughout our body. Any irregularity to heart can cause distress in other parts of body. Any sort of disturbance to normal functioning of the heart can be classified as a heart disease.
The proposed work makes an attempt to detect these heart diseases at early stage to avoid disastrous consequences. Records of large set of medical data created by medical experts are available for analysing and extracting valuable knowledge from it. Data mining techniques are the means of extracting valuable and hidden information from the large amount of data available. Mostly the medical database consists of discrete information. Hence, decision making using discrete data becomes complex and tough task. Machine Learning (ML) which is subfield of data mining handles large scale well-formatted dataset efficiently. In the medical field, machine learning can be used for diagnosis, detection and prediction of various diseases.
The main goal of this Project is to provide a tool for doctors to detect heart disease as early stage. This in turn will help to provide effective treatment to patients and avoid severe consequences. ML plays a very important role to detect the hidden discrete patterns and thereby analyse the given data. After analysis of data ML techniques help in heart disease prediction and early diagnosis. This project presents performance analysis of various ML techniques such as Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Logistic Regression, Support vector, K-means Neighbour, and Neural Network for predicting heart disease at an early stage one.
